---
permalink: /how-to/account/limited-access/
layout: article
section: how-to
title: How to use login.gov if you have limited access to a phone or cell service
breadcrumb: Limited access
category: account
tags: [account, login.gov, sign in, phone, cell, mobile, service, access, limited, support-update-account]
---

You only need to use a phone for the initial setup of your login.gov account - creating the account is a one-time step. We recommend you create your login.gov account when you do have cell phone service or find a phone only for initial account creation purposes.

Once you've successfully created your account, you can sign in either with your personal key or using an authentication app.

### Use an authentication application to generate a login.gov security code

After creating your login.gov account, you can set up an authentication application to generate security codes. If you want to use this option, **DO NOT** sign out of your new login.gov account until you have set up the authentication application.

1. Choose a device, such as a computer, or mobile device (phone or tablet), on which you can install apps.
2. Download and install one of the following authentication apps to the device:
  *	Android options: Google Authenticator, Authy, LastPass, 1Password
  * iOS options: Google Authenticator, Authy, LastPass, 1Password
  * Windows apps: 1Password, OTP Manager, OneLogin OTP
  * Mac apps: 1Password, OTP Manager
  * Chrome extensions: SecureAuth OTP, Authenticator
3. Log in to your login.gov account at <a href="https://secure.login.gov/">https://secure.login.gov/</a>
4. Select "enable" next to Authentication app and follow the instructions to scan or enter a code associating your authentication app with your account.

You will now be able to use the one time passcodes generated by the application each time you sign in instead of receiving an SMS (text messages) or phone call.

## Use your login.gov personal key

This option is always available with no additional software. After creating your login.gov account, you can also use your login.gov personal key. NOTE: You will be given a new personal key every time you use it to sign in. If you plan to use your personal key each time you sign in, you must always use the newest version of it.

1.	Sign in at login.gov with your email address and password.
2.	On the "Enter your security code" page, select "Use a personal key instead."
3.	Follow the instructions to enter your personal security code.
